usage/TypeConverters.md, before:

# Type Converters

Type converters enable fields within a ```Model``` that are not necessarily database-typed. 
They convert the value of the field into a database type in the way that you can define. 
They also define the way that when a ```Model``` is loaded, we recreate the field using the converter.

These converters are shared across all databases. 

If we specify the model value as a ```Model``` class then, there may be some very unexpected behavior for fields that are defined as ```Column.FOREIGN_KEY```

Here is the implementation of ```LocationConverter```, converting Locations into Strings:

```java

  // First type param is the type that goes into the database
  // Second type param is the type that the model contains for that field.
  @com.raizlabs.android.dbflow.annotation.TypeConverter
  public class LocationConverter extends TypeConverter<String,Location> {

    @Override
    public String getDBValue(Location model) {
        return String.valueOf(model.getLatitude()) + "," + model.getLongitude();
    }

    @Override
    public Location getModelValue(String data) {
        String[] values = data.split(",");
        if(values.length < 2) {
            return null;
        } else {
            Location location = new Location("");
            location.setLatitude(Double.parseDouble(values[0]));
            location.setLongitude(Double.parseDouble(values[1]));
            return location;
        }
    }
  }

```

Commit message:

added usage example of type converter

usage/TypeConverters.md, after:

# Type Converters

Type converters enable fields within a ```Model``` that are not necessarily database-typed.
They convert the value of the field into a database type in the way that you can define.
They also define the way that when a ```Model``` is loaded, we recreate the field using the converter.

These converters are shared across all databases.

If we specify the model value as a ```Model``` class then, there may be some very unexpected behavior for fields that are defined as ```Column.FOREIGN_KEY```

Here is the implementation of ```LocationConverter```, converting Locations into Strings:

```java

  // First type param is the type that goes into the database
  // Second type param is the type that the model contains for that field.
  @com.raizlabs.android.dbflow.annotation.TypeConverter
  public class LocationConverter extends TypeConverter<String,Location> {

    @Override
    public String getDBValue(Location model) {
        return String.valueOf(model.getLatitude()) + "," + model.getLongitude();
    }

    @Override
    public Location getModelValue(String data) {
        String[] values = data.split(",");
        if(values.length < 2) {
            return null;
        } else {
            Location location = new Location("");
            location.setLatitude(Double.parseDouble(values[0]));
            location.setLongitude(Double.parseDouble(values[1]));
            return location;
        }
    }
  }

```

To use the `LocationConverter`, using TypeConverters we simply add the class
as a field in our table:

```java

@Table(...)
public class SomeTable extends BaseModel {


  @Column
  Location location;

}


```
