usage2/GettingStarted.md, before:

# Getting Started

This section describes how Models and tables are constructed via DBFlow. first
let's describe how to get a database up and running.

## Creating a Database

In DBFlow, creating a database is as simple as only a few lines of code. DBFlow
supports any number of databases, however individual tables and other related files
can only be associated with one database.

```kotlin

@Database(version = AppDatabase.VERSION)
object AppDatabase {
  const val VERSION = 1
}
```

```java

@Database(version = AppDatabase.VERSION)
public class AppDatabase {
  public static final int VERSION = 1;
}

```

The name of the database by default is the class name. To change it, read [here](Databases.md).

Writing this file generates (by default) a `AppDatabaseAppDatabase_Database.java`
file, which contains tables, views, and more all tied to a specific database. This
class is automatically placed into the main `GeneratedDatabaseHolder`, which holds
potentially many databases. The name, `AppDatabaseAppDatabase_Database.java`, is generated
via {DatabaseClassName}{DatabaseFileName}_Database

To learn more about what you can configure in a database, read [here](Databases.md)

## Initialize FlowManager

DBFlow needs an instance of `Context` in order to use it for a few features such
as reading from assets, content observing, and generating `ContentProvider`.

Initialize in your `Application` subclass. You can also initialize it from other
`Context` but we always grab the `Application` `Context` (this is done only once).


```kotlin
class ExampleApplication : Application {

  override fun onCreate() {
    super.onCreate()
    FlowManager.init(this)
  }
}
```

```java
public class ExampleApplication extends Application {

    @Override
    public void onCreate() {
        super.onCreate();
        FlowManager.init(this);
    }
}

```

Finally, add the definition to the manifest (with the name that you chose for your custom application):
```xml
<application
  android:name="{packageName}.ExampleApplication"
  ...>
</application>
```

A database within DBFlow is only initialized once you call `FlowManager.getDatabase(SomeDatabase.class).getWritableDatabase()`. If you
don't want this behavior or prefer it to happen immediately, modify your `FlowConfig`:

```kotlin

override fun onCreate() {
    super.onCreate()
    FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
        .openDatabasesOnInit(true)
        .build());
}

```

```java

@Override
public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();
    FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
        .openDatabasesOnInit(true)
        .build());
}

```

If you do not like the built-in `DefaultTransactionManager`, or just want to roll your own existing system:

```java

FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
    .database(DatabaseConfig.builder(AppDatabase.class)
            .transactionManager(new CustomTransactionManager())
          .build()));

```

You can define different kinds for each database.
To read more on transactions and subclassing `BaseTransactionManager` go [here](StoringData.md)

## Create Models

Creating models are as simple as defining the model class, and adding the `@Table` annotation.
To read more on this, read [here](Models.md).

An example:


```kotlin

@Table(database = TestDatabase::class)
    class Currency(@PrimaryKey(autoincrement = true) var id: Long = 0,
                   @Column @Unique var symbol: String? = null,
                   @Column var shortName: String? = null,
                   @Column @Unique var name: String = "") // nullability of fields are respected. We will not assign a null value to this field.

```

```java


@Table(database = TestDatabase.class)
public class Currency {

    @PrimaryKey(autoincrement = true)
    long id; // package-private recommended, not required

    @Column
    @Unique
    String symbol;

    @Column
    String shortName;

    @Column
    @Unique
    private String name; // private with getters and setters

    public String getName() {
      return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
      this.name = name;
    }
}

```

## Perform Some Queries

DBFlow uses expressive builders to represent and translate to the SQLite language.

A simple query in SQLite:

```sqlite

SELECT * FROM Currency WHERE symbol='$';

```

Can be represented by:

```kotlin

(select from Currency::class where (symbol eq "$"))

```

or in Java with fluent syntax

```java

SQLite.select()
  .from(Currency.class)
  .where(Currency_Table.symbol.eq("$"));

```

We support many kinds of complex and complicated queries using the builder
language. To read more about this, see [the wrapper language docs](SQLiteWrapperLanguage.md)

There is much more you can do in DBFlow. Read through the other docs to
get a sense of the library.

Commit message:

[docs] update docs for coroutines and kotlin in databases / getting started. rename transact coroutine into awaitTransact.

usage2/GettingStarted.md, after:

# Getting Started

This section describes how Models and tables are constructed via DBFlow. first
let's describe how to get a database up and running.

## Creating a Database

In DBFlow, creating a database is as simple as only a few lines of code. DBFlow
supports any number of databases, however individual tables and other related files
can only be associated with one database.

```kotlin

@Database(version = 1)
abstract class AppDatabase : DBFlowDatabase()
```

```java

@Database(version = 1)
public abstract class AppDatabase extends DBFlowDatabase {
}

```

The name of the database by default is the class name. To change it, read [here](Databases.md).

Writing this file generates (by default) a `AppDatabaseAppDatabase_Database.java`
file, which contains tables, views, and more all tied to a specific database. This
class is automatically placed into the main `GeneratedDatabaseHolder`, which holds
potentially many databases. The name, `AppDatabaseAppDatabase_Database.java`, is generated
via {DatabaseClassName}{DatabaseFileName}_Database

To learn more about what you can configure in a database, read [here](Databases.md)

## Initialize FlowManager

DBFlow needs an instance of `Context` in order to use it for a few features such
as reading from assets, content observing, and generating `ContentProvider`.

Initialize in your `Application` subclass. You can also initialize it from other
`Context` but we always grab the `Application` `Context` (this is done only once).


```kotlin
class ExampleApplication : Application {

  override fun onCreate() {
    super.onCreate()
    FlowManager.init(this)
  }
}
```

```java
public class ExampleApplication extends Application {

    @Override
    public void onCreate() {
        super.onCreate();
        FlowManager.init(this);
    }
}

```

By default without passing in a `DatabaseConfig`, we construct an `AndroidSQLiteOpenHelper` database instance. To learn more about what you can configure in a database, read [here](Databases.md), including providing own database instances.

Finally, add the custom `Application` definition to the manifest (with the name that you chose for the class):
```xml
<application
  android:name="{packageName}.ExampleApplication"
  ...>
</application>
```

A database within DBFlow is only initialized once you call `database<SomeDatabase>()`. If you
don't want this behavior or prefer it to happen immediately, modify your `FlowConfig`:

```kotlin

override fun onCreate() {
    super.onCreate()
    FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
        .openDatabasesOnInit(true)
        .build());
}

```

```java

@Override
public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();
    FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
        .openDatabasesOnInit(true)
        .build());
}

```

If you do not like the built-in `DefaultTransactionManager`, or just want to roll your own existing system:

```kotlin

FlowManager.init(FlowConfig.builder(this)
    .database(DatabaseConfig.builder(AppDatabase::class)
            .transactionManager(CustomTransactionManager())
          .build()));

```

You can define different kinds for each database.
To read more on transactions and subclassing `BaseTransactionManager` go [here](StoringData.md)

## Create Models

Creating models are as simple as defining the model class, and adding the `@Table` annotation.
To read more on this, read [here](Models.md).

**For now**: Models must provide a default, parameterless constructor.
An example:

```kotlin

@Table(database = TestDatabase::class)
    class Currency(@PrimaryKey(autoincrement = true) var id: Long = 0,
                   @Column @Unique var symbol: String? = null,
                   @Column var shortName: String? = null,
                   @Column @Unique var name: String = "") // nullability of fields are respected. We will not assign a null value to this field.

```

or with Java:

```java


@Table(database = TestDatabase.class)
public class Currency {

    @PrimaryKey(autoincrement = true)
    long id; // package-private recommended, not required

    @Column
    @Unique
    String symbol;

    @Column
    String shortName;

    @Column
    @Unique
    private String name; // private with getters and setters

    public String getName() {
      return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
      this.name = name;
    }
}

```

## Perform Some Queries

DBFlow uses expressive builders to represent and translate to the SQLite language.

A simple query in SQLite:

```sqlite

SELECT * FROM Currency WHERE symbol='$';

```

DBFlow Kotlin (by using our `dbflow-coroutines` module):

```kotlin

async {
  database<AppDatabase>{
    val list = awaitTransact(
      select from Currency::class
      where (symbol eq "$")) { list }

    // use the objects here
  }
}

```

or in Java with fluent syntax

```java

SQLite.select(FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class))
  .from(Currency.class)
  .where(Currency_Table.symbol.eq("$"));

```

We support many kinds of complex and complicated queries using the builder
language. To read more about this, see [the wrapper language docs](SQLiteWrapperLanguage.md)

There is much more you can do in DBFlow. Read through the other docs to
get a sense of the library.
