usage2/StoringData.md, before:

# Storing Data

DBFlow provide a few mechanisms by which we store data to the database. The difference of options
should not provide confusion but rather allow flexibility in what you decide is the best way
to store information.

## Synchronous Storage

While generally saving data synchronous should be avoided, for small amounts of data
it has little effect.

```java

model.insert(); // inserts
model.update(); // updates
model.save(); // checks if exists, if true update, else insert.

```

Code like this should be avoided:

```java

for (int i = 0; i < models.size(), i++) {
  models.get(i).save();
}

```

## Synchronous Transactions

A simple database transaction can be wrapped in a call:

```java

FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class).executeTransaction(new ITransaction() {
            @Override
            public void execute(DatabaseWrapper databaseWrapper) {
                // something here
                Player player = new Player("Andrew", "Grosner");
                player.save(databaseWrapper); // use wrapper (from BaseModel)
            }
});

```

Even though DBFlow is ridiculously fast, this should be put on a separate thread
 outside of the UI, so that your UI remains responsive on all devices.

 Instead we should move onto `Transaction` (the preferred method).

### Async Transactions

## Transactions

Transactions are ACID in SQLite, meaning they either occur completely or not at all.
Using transactions significantly speed up the time it takes to store. So recommendation
you should use transactions whenever you can.

Async is the preferred method. Transactions, using the `DefaultTransactionManager`,
 occur on one thread per-database (to prevent flooding from other DB in your app)
  and receive callbacks on the UI. You can override this behavior and roll your own
  or hook into an existing system, read [here](/usage2/StoringData.md#custom-transactionmanager).

Also to use the legacy, priority-based system, read [here](/usage2/StoringData.md#priority-queue).

 A basic transaction:

 ```java

DatabaseDefinition database = FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class);
Transaction transaction = database.beginTransactionAsync(new ITransaction() {
            @Override
            public void execute(DatabaseWrapper databaseWrapper) {
                called.set(true);
            }
        }).build();
transaction.execute(); // execute

transaction.cancel();
 // attempt to cancel before its run. If it's already ran, this call has no effect.

 ```

 `Transaction` have callbacks to allow you to "listen" for success and errors.

 ```java


 transaction
    .success(new Transaction.Success() {
       @Override
       public void onSuccess(Transaction transaction) {
          // called post-execution on the UI thread.
       }
   })
   .error(new Transaction.Error() {
       @Override
       public void onError(Transaction transaction, Throwable error) {
          // call if any errors occur in the transaction.
       }
   });


 ```

 The `Success` callback runs post-transaction on the UI thread.
 The `Error` callback is called on the UI thread if and only if it is specified and an exception occurs,
 otherwise it is thrown in the `Transaction` as a `RuntimeException`. **Note**:
 all exceptions are caught when specifying the callback. Ensure you handle all
 errors, otherwise you might miss some problems.

### ProcessModelTransaction

`ProcessModelTransaction` allows for more flexibility and for you to easily operate on a set of `Model` in a
`Transaction` easily. It holds a list of `Model` by which you provide the modification
method in the `Builder`. You can listen for when each are processed inside a normal
`Transaction`.

It is a convenient way to operate on them:

```java

ProcessModelTransaction<TestModel1> processModelTransaction =
        new ProcessModelTransaction.Builder<>(new ProcessModelTransaction.ProcessModel<TestModel1>() {
            @Override
            public void processModel(TestModel1 model) {
                // call some operation on model here
                model.save();
                model.insert(); // or
                model.delete(); // or
            }
        }).processListener(new ProcessModelTransaction.OnModelProcessListener<TestModel1>() {
            @Override
            public void onModelProcessed(long current, long total, TestModel1 modifiedModel) {
                modelProcessedCount.incrementAndGet();
            }
        }).addAll(items).build();
Transaction transaction = database.beginTransactionAsync(processModelTransaction).build();
transaction.execute();

```

In Kotlin (with `dbflow-kotlinextensions`), we can drastically simplify:

```java

items.processInTransactionAsync({ it, databaseWrapper -> it.delete(databaseWrapper) },
    ProcessModelTransaction.OnModelProcessListener { current, size, model ->
      modelProcessedCount.incrementAndGet();
    })

```
You can listen to when operations complete for each model via the `OnModelProcessListener`.
These callbacks occur on the UI thread. If you wish to run them on same thread (great for tests),
set `runProcessListenerOnSameThread()` to `true`.

### FastStoreModelTransaction

The `FastStoreModelTransaction` is the quickest, lightest way to store a `List` of
`Model` into the database through a `Transaction`. It comes with some restrictions when compared to `ProcessModelTransaction`:
  1. All `Model` must be from same Table/Model Class.
  2. No progress listening
  3. Can only `save`, `insert`, or `update` the whole list entirely.

```java

FastStoreModelTransaction
  .insertBuilder(FlowManager.getModelAdapter(TestModel2.class))
    .addAll(modelList)
    .build()

    // updateBuilder + saveBuilder also available.

```

What it provides:
  1. Reuses `ContentValues`, `DatabaseStatement`, and other classes where possible.
  2. Opens and closes own `DatabaseStatement` per total execution.
  3. Significant speed bump over `ProcessModelTransaction` at the expense of flexibility.

### Custom TransactionManager

If you prefer to roll your own thread-management system or have an existing
system you can override the default system included.


To begin you must implement a `ITransactionQueue`:

```java

public class CustomQueue implements ITransactionQueue {

    @Override
    public void add(Transaction transaction) {

    }

    @Override
    public void cancel(Transaction transaction) {

    }

    @Override
    public void startIfNotAlive() {

    }

    @Override
    public void cancel(String name) {

    }

    @Override
    public void quit() {

    }
}

```

You must provide ways to `add()`, `cancel(Transaction)`, and `startIfNotAlive()`.
The other two methods are optional, but recommended.

`startIfNotAlive()` in the `DefaultTransactionQueue` will start itself (since it's
a thread).

 Next you can override the `BaseTransactionManager` (not required, see later):

```java

public class CustomTransactionManager extends BaseTransactionManager {

   public CustomTransactionManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
       super(new CustomTransactionQueue(), databaseDefinition);
   }

}

```

To register it with DBFlow, in your `FlowConfig`, you must:

```java

FlowManager.init(builder
    .addDatabaseConfig(new DatabaseConfig.Builder(AppDatabase.class)
       .transactionManagerCreator(new DatabaseConfig.TransactionManagerCreator() {
                        @Override
                        public BaseTransactionManager createManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
                          // this will be called once database modules are loaded and created.
                            return new CustomTransactionManager(databaseDefinition);

                            // or you can:
                            //return new DefaultTransactionManager(new CustomTransactionQueue(), databaseDefinition);
                        }
                    })
       .build())
    .build());

```

### Priority Queue

In versions pre-3.0, DBFlow utilized a `PriorityBlockingQueue` to manage the asynchronous
dispatch of `Transaction`. As of 3.0, it has switched to simply a FIFO queue. To
keep the legacy way, a `PriorityTransactionQueue` was created.

As seen in [Custom Transaction Managers](/usage2/StoringData.md#custom-transactionmanager),
we provide a custom instance of the  `DefaultTransactionManager` with the `PriorityTransactionQueue` specified:

```java

FlowManager.init(builder
    .addDatabaseConfig(new DatabaseConfig.Builder(AppDatabase.class)
       .transactionManagerCreator(new DatabaseConfig.TransactionManagerCreator() {
                        @Override
                        public BaseTransactionManager createManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
                          // this will be called once database modules are loaded and created.
                            return new DefaultTransactionManager(
                              new PriorityTransactionQueue("DBFlow Priority Queue"),
                              databaseDefinition);
                        }
                    })
       .build())
    .build());

```

What this does is for the specified database (in this case `AppDatabase`),
now require each `ITransaction` specified for the database should wrap itself around
the `PriorityTransactionWrapper`. Otherwise an the `PriorityTransactionQueue`
wraps the existing `Transaction` in a `PriorityTransactionWrapper` with normal priority.


To specify a priority:

```java

FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class)
    .beginTransactionAsync(new PriorityTransactionWrapper.Builder(myTransaction)
        .priority(PriorityTransactionWrapper.PRIORITY_HIGH).build())
    .build().execute();

```

Commit message:

[documentation] update almost all doc for 4.0

usage2/StoringData.md, after:

# Storing Data

DBFlow provide a few mechanisms by which we store data to the database. The difference of options
should not provide confusion but rather allow flexibility in what you decide is the best way
to store information.

## Synchronous Storage

While generally saving data synchronous should be avoided, for small amounts of data
it has little effect.

```java

FlowManager.getModelAdapter(SomeTable.class).save(model);

FlowManager.getModelAdapter(SomeTable.class).insert(model);

FlowManager.getModelAdapter(SomeTable.class).update(model);

model.insert(); // inserts
model.update(); // updates
model.save(); // checks if exists, if true update, else insert.

```

Code (without running in a transaction) like this should be avoided:

```java

for (int i = 0; i < models.size(), i++) {
  models.get(i).save();
}

```

Doing operations on the main thread can block it if you read and write to the DB on a different thread while accessing DB on the main.

## Synchronous Transactions

A simple database transaction can be wrapped in a call:

```java

FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class).executeTransaction(new ITransaction() {
            @Override
            public void execute(DatabaseWrapper databaseWrapper) {
                // something here
                Player player = new Player("Andrew", "Grosner");
                player.save(databaseWrapper); // use wrapper (from BaseModel)
            }
});

```

Even though DBFlow is ridiculously fast, this should be put on a separate thread
 outside of the UI, so that your UI remains responsive on all devices.

 Instead we should move onto `Transaction` (the preferred method).

### Async Transactions

## Transactions

Transactions are ACID in SQLite, meaning they either occur completely or not at all.
Using transactions significantly speed up the time it takes to store. So recommendation
you should use transactions whenever you can.

Async is the preferred method. Transactions, using the `DefaultTransactionManager`,
 occur on one thread per-database (to prevent flooding from other DB in your app)
  and receive callbacks on the UI. You can override this behavior and roll your own
  or hook into an existing system, read [here](/usage2/StoringData.md#custom-transactionmanager).

Also to use the legacy, priority-based system, read [here](/usage2/StoringData.md#priority-queue).

 A basic transaction:

 ```java

DatabaseDefinition database = FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class);
Transaction transaction = database.beginTransactionAsync(new ITransaction() {
            @Override
            public void execute(DatabaseWrapper databaseWrapper) {
                called.set(true);
            }
        }).build();
transaction.execute(); // execute

transaction.cancel();
 // attempt to cancel before its run. If it's already ran, this call has no effect.

 ```

 `Transaction` have callbacks to allow you to "listen" for success and errors.

 ```java


 transaction
    .success(new Transaction.Success() {
       @Override
       public void onSuccess(Transaction transaction) {
          // called post-execution on the UI thread.
       }
   })
   .error(new Transaction.Error() {
       @Override
       public void onError(Transaction transaction, Throwable error) {
          // call if any errors occur in the transaction.
       }
   });


 ```

 The `Success` callback runs post-transaction on the UI thread.
 The `Error` callback is called on the UI thread if and only if it is specified and an exception occurs,
 otherwise it is thrown in the `Transaction` as a `RuntimeException`. **Note**:
 all exceptions are caught when specifying the callback. Ensure you handle all
 errors, otherwise you might miss some problems.

### ProcessModelTransaction

`ProcessModelTransaction` allows for more flexibility and for you to easily operate on a set of `Model` in a
`Transaction` easily. It holds a list of `Model` by which you provide the modification
method in the `Builder`. You can listen for when each are processed inside a normal
`Transaction`.

It is a convenient way to operate on them:

```java

ProcessModelTransaction<TestModel1> processModelTransaction =
        new ProcessModelTransaction.Builder<>(new ProcessModelTransaction.ProcessModel<TestModel1>() {
            @Override
            public void processModel(TestModel1 model) {
                // call some operation on model here
                model.save();
                model.insert(); // or
                model.delete(); // or
            }
        }).processListener(new ProcessModelTransaction.OnModelProcessListener<TestModel1>() {
            @Override
            public void onModelProcessed(long current, long total, TestModel1 modifiedModel) {
                modelProcessedCount.incrementAndGet();
            }
        }).addAll(items).build();
Transaction transaction = database.beginTransactionAsync(processModelTransaction).build();
transaction.execute();

```

In Kotlin (with `dbflow-kotlinextensions`), we can drastically simplify:

```java

items.processInTransactionAsync({ it, databaseWrapper -> it.delete(databaseWrapper) },
    ProcessModelTransaction.OnModelProcessListener { current, size, model ->
      modelProcessedCount.incrementAndGet();
    })

```
You can listen to when operations complete for each model via the `OnModelProcessListener`.
These callbacks occur on the UI thread. If you wish to run them on same thread (great for tests),
set `runProcessListenerOnSameThread()` to `true`.

### FastStoreModelTransaction

The `FastStoreModelTransaction` is the quickest, lightest way to store a `List` of
`Model` into the database through a `Transaction`. It comes with some restrictions when compared to `ProcessModelTransaction`:
  1. All `Model` must be from same Table/Model Class.
  2. No progress listening
  3. Can only `save`, `insert`, or `update` the whole list entirely.

```java

FastStoreModelTransaction
  .insertBuilder(FlowManager.getModelAdapter(TestModel2.class))
    .addAll(modelList)
    .build()

    // updateBuilder + saveBuilder also available.

```

What it provides:
  1. Reuses `ContentValues`, `DatabaseStatement`, and other classes where possible.
  2. Opens and closes own `DatabaseStatement` per total execution.
  3. Significant speed bump over `ProcessModelTransaction` at the expense of flexibility.

### Custom TransactionManager

If you prefer to roll your own thread-management system or have an existing
system you can override the default system included.


To begin you must implement a `ITransactionQueue`:

```java

public class CustomQueue implements ITransactionQueue {

    @Override
    public void add(Transaction transaction) {

    }

    @Override
    public void cancel(Transaction transaction) {

    }

    @Override
    public void startIfNotAlive() {

    }

    @Override
    public void cancel(String name) {

    }

    @Override
    public void quit() {

    }
}

```

You must provide ways to `add()`, `cancel(Transaction)`, and `startIfNotAlive()`.
The other two methods are optional, but recommended.

`startIfNotAlive()` in the `DefaultTransactionQueue` will start itself (since it's
a thread).

 Next you can override the `BaseTransactionManager` (not required, see later):

```java

public class CustomTransactionManager extends BaseTransactionManager {

   public CustomTransactionManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
       super(new CustomTransactionQueue(), databaseDefinition);
   }

}

```

To register it with DBFlow, in your `FlowConfig`, you must:

```java

FlowManager.init(builder
    .addDatabaseConfig(new DatabaseConfig.Builder(AppDatabase.class)
       .transactionManagerCreator(new DatabaseConfig.TransactionManagerCreator() {
                        @Override
                        public BaseTransactionManager createManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
                          // this will be called once database modules are loaded and created.
                            return new CustomTransactionManager(databaseDefinition);

                            // or you can:
                            //return new DefaultTransactionManager(new CustomTransactionQueue(), databaseDefinition);
                        }
                    })
       .build())
    .build());

```

### Priority Queue

In versions pre-3.0, DBFlow utilized a `PriorityBlockingQueue` to manage the asynchronous
dispatch of `Transaction`. As of 3.0, it has switched to simply a FIFO queue. To
keep the legacy way, a `PriorityTransactionQueue` was created.

As seen in [Custom Transaction Managers](/usage2/StoringData.md#custom-transactionmanager),
we provide a custom instance of the  `DefaultTransactionManager` with the `PriorityTransactionQueue` specified:

```java

FlowManager.init(builder
    .addDatabaseConfig(new DatabaseConfig.Builder(AppDatabase.class)
       .transactionManagerCreator(new DatabaseConfig.TransactionManagerCreator() {
                        @Override
                        public BaseTransactionManager createManager(DatabaseDefinition databaseDefinition) {
                          // this will be called once database modules are loaded and created.
                            return new DefaultTransactionManager(
                              new PriorityTransactionQueue("DBFlow Priority Queue"),
                              databaseDefinition);
                        }
                    })
       .build())
    .build());

```

What this does is for the specified database (in this case `AppDatabase`),
now require each `ITransaction` specified for the database should wrap itself around
the `PriorityTransactionWrapper`. Otherwise an the `PriorityTransactionQueue`
wraps the existing `Transaction` in a `PriorityTransactionWrapper` with normal priority.


To specify a priority:

```java

FlowManager.getDatabase(AppDatabase.class)
    .beginTransactionAsync(new PriorityTransactionWrapper.Builder(myTransaction)
        .priority(PriorityTransactionWrapper.PRIORITY_HIGH).build())
    .build().execute();

```
